what's up guys Jase $0.02 here and I'm
gonna do a video that I haven't really
done in a very long time because times
have changed and I feel like with
computer popularity being at its peak
right now this video is directed towards
those people considering buying or
building their very first computers so
today we're gonna talk about the five
top reasons why you should build your
own PC and we're gonna even include two
reasons why you shouldn't
featuring the Intel 9750 h6 core
processor up to 64 gigabytes of memory
and multiple GPU options mag 15 laptop
from you electronics is one of the
lightest production and gaming notebooks
on the market due to its magnesium
lightweight chassis and 15.6 inch 144
hertz IPS monitor the mag 15 weighs in
at just 4 pounds while the 94 watt hour
battery provides hours of use in a
single charge to see the full spec list
of the mag 15 from electronics and to
see their complete lineup of laptops and
notebooks click the sponsor link in the
description below now well aware that
many of you watching this channel are
veterans and you built your very own
computers maybe dozens maybe even
hundreds and you're an IT professional I
am talking to the first timer or at the
very least somebody who hasn't done this
in a very long time and everything out
today is completely new to them so if
you're a veteran watcher do me a favor
put your favorite 5 top reasons why
someone should build their own computer
and include two reasons why they
shouldn't in the comments below the more
information the better but I'm gonna go
ahead and start talking to you the
newbie or the person who's never done
this first reason I'm gonna put out
there I think it's pretty obvious and
that is it is easier than it's ever been
we're not talking back in the days when
you had comm ports and you had game
ports printer ports and you had serial
buses and all sorts of things that were
had to be configured to even work
properly you never had a chance of even
getting your computer to post or boot if
you didn't have things set properly even
with dip switches and all sorts of other
mechanical controls those days are long
gone
the popularity of computers as much as a
lot of articles want to make it sound
like computers are dead is completely
false and we are at the highest
popularity pcs have ever been in and
that's because of obviously the
popularity of streaming and the amount
of gaming that's out there now console
ports consoles are really popular PC
gaming is more popular than it's ever
been and with that has come the most
streamlined process ever when it comes
to installing your parts your graphics
cards can only fit in one particular
slot type
and your motherboard is written in plain
English to tell you which slot you
should use Ram only goes in one place
your CPUs are easier to install than
they've ever been
AMV being still I think the mainstream
stuff the easiest CPUs to install but
things are more rugged than they've ever
been
ESD protection now built into
motherboard so you can't necessarily
accidentally shock it very easily and
kill your stuff oh oh oh
in fact people constantly refer to it as
adult Legos and I would tend to agree
with that
now reason number two is that it's
cheaper to build than it's ever been now
I know a lot of you just got triggered
like what do you mean cheaper to build
we've got $1,200 twenty eight et eyes
out there it's more expensive than
graphics cards have ever been but that's
only if you're shopping at the top tier
you're getting much more price to
performance benefit down in the sixty
series cards or even the 50 series cards
that we've ever had in the past even in
the last five years we've seen a huge
huge exponential uptick of performance
$2 ratio because of at least some
performance and battle taking place down
in the mid and low tier graphics cards
between AMD and NVIDIA just speaking of
graphics cards alone the cpu competition
taking place between Intel and AMD has
made that even more competitive to where
AMD has brought massive core counts to a
an incredible performance to perform or
to budget ratio than even was in the
past
AMD used to be the brand known for well
at least it's a good price and it tried
when it comes to performance is now hey
it's a great price and is even better
performance when you compare it to the
competition not only that Ram has
finally come down in price a lot of
price gouging taking place with RAM is
gone the cryptocurrency mining days of
graphics cards causing graphics cards
prices to quadruple in some instances is
over and things have normalized meaning
that you could go down to even Best Buy
and buy all the parts that you would
need at a fairly competitive price
versus on time online on time online
retailers giving you now the fastest
cheapest computers that you can possibly
build now I know that chief is obviously
in the eye of the beholder and it's
going to be subjective but the bottom
line is performance $2 ratios across the
board are better than they've ever been
now the third reason out there is you
have full control over the parts that go
in your system when you build from an SI
or a system integrator that's basically
a company that takes
parts buys the parts package ISM the
system together and then ships off the
system as a whole and you get it you
turn it on Windows is greeting you with
Cortana and all the spyware enabled that
you got to go in and shut off but I
digress it's up and running and ready to
go but you have to use whatever parts
are available or offered and whatever
packages that they're put together in
and some cookie cutter format depending
on the si that you go with but the fact
that you can control your own parts mean
you can save a little here and spend a
little more there and although some sis
do give you a little radio boxes that
you can check to kind of move around the
budget you usually are only given two or
three options anyway and then past that
you still are kind of shoehorned into
whatever build that they feel that they
want to offer so if you're the kind of
person that likes to take control you
like to customize you like to build
things yourself having all the control
over the parts that go into your system
make it obviously a very glaring benefit
to doing it yourself now reason number
four is one that I don't think everyone
will agree with but again these are my
five top reasons and you might differ
which is why I said put your comments
down below and that is for the learning
experience if you've never done this
there's nothing better than learning
something new I'm like Johnny Five I am
constantly looking for more input they
say the human brain is only being 10%
utilized and I'm pretty convinced that
I'm only using about seven point two six
five percent of my brain which means I'm
constantly trying to reach that goal of
ten percent not sure I'm ever gonna get
there but I digress this channel is all
about teaching people things and you
know they say about teachers teachers
are always learners as well and so I'm
constantly trying to teach myself and
learn new things whether it be through
DIY self learning or letting people
teach me the experience you'll gain from
this will only make you more confident
and taking on more tasks and more
challenges in the future and it's a heck
of a lot of fun it's it's one of those
things where you're gonna start looking
for reasons to build a new computer
which might be a bad thing you might
start spending your mortgage money in
your car payments on computer parts and
that's fine
you're gonna start telling all your
friends hey you want me build you a
computer I'll build your computer get
you parts out build it and it becomes
more fun to build the computer than to
actually game on it
in fact we build more computers around
here then we even game on shut up I
haven't done my office yet I'm working
on it and the reason number five comes
to us straight from Electronic Arts
themselves a sense of pride and
accomplishment
yes I'm referring to all the hard work
that you're gonna put in building your
system paying off and a glorious PC that
you can sit there and look at and say I
earned that all right that's not a real
reason I just kind of felt like throwing
it out there because it kind of goes
back to what I just said in the previous
reason which is the learning experience
once it's done you're gonna look at it
just like I look at nebula or I looked
at skunk works or I look at the system I
built for Phil or the destiny to PC even
though I've built quite literally
hundreds of computers in my life I still
look at everyone I build and I go you
know what I did that sometimes I look I
don't know you know what I did that but
the real reason number five you should
build your own PC is the fact that you
built it means you can also fix it one
of the problems with buying an SI system
is if you just buy the thing and you
didn't build it or work on it yourself
if something goes wrong it means you
gonna be picking up the phone and
sitting on tech support and waiting on
hold and potentially sending the whole
system back to the si to get something
simple fixed simply because you didn't
have the knowledge to do it yourself
trust me as someone that used to work in
IT trying to do over the phone
troubleshooting although IT experts and
troubleshooting support agents are
usually pretty good at figuring out what
the problem is and getting it fixed over
the phone they can only do as good of a
job as you help them do by describing
the problem and working through the
tasks that they give you to try and fix
it and if you have no idea what you're
doing whatsoever the chances of
successful repair over the phone is
going to be you extremely diminished so
the fact that you built it means that
you can fix it you'll understand with a
graphics card went where the CPU went
how the motherboard went in and what
plugged into where you won't be guessing
and it all ties back to that learning
experience but with all that said that
doesn't mean building your own computers
for everyone so that's why I'm including
two reasons why you shouldn't build your
own computer now the first reason why
you maybe don't want to build your own
computer is one that I just kind of
mentioned it's that whole warranty and
support being backed by the system
builder you being the system builder
means you
how to warranty it and back it yourself
all the labor all the the tearing it
apart and getting it fixed and then
hopefully being able to actually
diagnose what went wrong so sometimes
people just are not comfortable with
that
and what that means is having support an
online tech support a phone number that
you can call for help
on fixing your system and sometimes with
depending on the brand that you go with
a dedicated person that's your liaison
to your system with the brand is
designed to get you up and running with
as minimal downtime as possible and
having that support system to many
people is invaluable and although we
talked earlier about si as being more
expensive than than building it yourself
that's quite different today than it
used to be back in the day you used to
be able to save 500 or more dollars by
building at yourself versus sis but how
competitive pcs have become and how
competitive pricing has been between all
the system integrators the only way that
can get your business is to become less
expensive which means now sometimes the
most common overhead price of having
somebody build it for you and and buying
it from a company is as little as $100
over doing it yourself that hundred
dollars to many people is way more
valuable having a support system than
having that in your wallet so if that's
you there's nothing wrong with that now
the last reason why you may not want to
build your own computer is again
directly related to a reason why you
said maybe you should it's all the
options
look PC popularity is at the highest
it's ever been don't listen to people
when they say PC gaming is on the
decline that is a bunch of malarkey
until I said malarkey it's a bunch of
but every single company is doubling
down with many different SKUs tons of
motherboards with the same socket and
you've got your gaming grade your
professional grade in your budget grade
you've got thirty six thousand different
Nvidia graphics cards available today
and then you've got all the board
partners with all of their SKUs
underneath all the Nvidia SKUs you've
got all the different CPUs you've got
different sockets motherboard types you
got motherboard chipsets that may or may
not be compatible with what's on the on
the shelf today because the CPU might
have come out after this motherboard but
although this motherboard is gonna
support it it needs to be updated first
but you can't update the CPU they bought
right there so you gotta do some sort of
a BIOS flashback and yeah if you're
starting to go what the hell is he
saying that might be a reason why you
don't want to build it yourself because
compatibility and trying to choose the
right parts and not waste any money is
where the real challenge with PC
building is yet in 2020 so having all
these options is great but what that
becomes a really overwhelming sense of I
don't know what to get and although
there's websites out there like builds
gg from cable mod and then you've also
got you know PC part picker and all that
and you've got all the forms what you're
gonna find up there are fifty six
thousand two hundred and twelve
different opinions on how you should
spend that same one thousand dollars so
sometimes just buying it is easier but
guys those are my five technically six
reasons why you should build your own
computer and two reasons why you
shouldn't obviously just like I just
said there's a million different
opinions out there so please put your
favorite 5 reasons why you should and
two reasons why you shouldn't down in
the comments below and let's have a real
discussion about building a computer in
2020 thanks for watching guys and as
always we'll see you in the next one and
stay tuned we have some build guides
coming up some different price points to
kind of follow up with this video
putting my money where my mouth is
literally